Add a pull request template (#3308)
Uninett/nav: .github/pull_request_template.md

## Scope and purpose

Fixes #<!-- ISSUE-ID -->. Dependent on #<!-- PULL-REQUEST-ID -->. <!-- Reference: https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue -->

Add a description of what this PR does and why it is needed. If a linked ticket(s) fully
cover it, you can omit this.

<!-- remove things that do not apply -->
### This pull request
* adds/changes/removes a dependency
* changes the database
* changes the API

## Contributor Checklist

Every pull request should have this checklist filled out, no matter how small it is.
More information about contributing to NAV can be found in the
[Hacker's guide to NAV](https://nav.readthedocs.io/en/latest/hacking/hacking.html#hacker-s-guide-to-nav).

<!-- Add an "X" inside the brackets to confirm -->

> <!-- If not checking one or more of the boxes, please explain why below each. -->

Reviewer: What about all the checkboxes that already begin with "If ...".  Do we really need to comment why these aren't checked?

> * [ ] Added a changelog fragment for [towncrier](https://nav.readthedocs.io/en/latest/hacking/hacking.html#adding-a-changelog-entry)

Reviewer: Should we explain somewhere that if the contributor deems that this change is purely internal and doesn't deserve a news item to be published to end users, that the `nonews` label can be added (are outside contributors allowed to add labels?)?

Author: "Anyone with triage access to a repository can apply and dismiss labels." (See: https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-user-access-to-your-organizations-repositories/managing-repository-roles/repository-roles-for-an-organization#permissions-for-each-role)

So most outside contributors won't be able to do so, so I feel like we can omit that

* [ ] Added/amended tests for new/changed code
* [ ] Added/changed documentation

> * [ ] Linted/formatted the code with black and ruff, easiest by using [pre-commit](https://nav.readthedocs.io/en/latest/hacking/hacking.html#pre-commit-hooks-and-black)

Reviewer: We've been using a similar template in other projects for a while now, and I have to say I find this checkbox quite annoying by now.  The GitHub workflow will explicitly bonk me on the head and fail my PR if I haven't done this, so why do I need to check this box on every PR?

Author: It's mainly there so that new contributors aren't opening a pull request to then be surprised by the failing test, since they might not have read the `Hacking` docs. 

I personally find it satisfying to be able to check that checkbox every time, but it's open for discussion.

Reviewer: There is still nothing but the Hacking docs that will prepare a new contributor for this.

A contributor can make huge changes with many commits, and still not be presented with this PR description template and this checkbox until they actually attempt to open a PR on GitHub - at which point they still have to go back and fix everything.

Author: Yes, that is true. So the question is if we want a new contributor to see that condition at the moment of creating a pull request or after opening it, when the relevant actions are failing.

Reviewer 2: Its similar with the news fragment, a workflow will tell you that it wasn't included. But I do think the link to documentation for news fragments is very nice, same with the link to how to set up pre-commit.

Basically you will learn after your first pull request that you need to use pre-commit and make news fragments, and if you forget then a workflow will remind you, so I kinda agree that these dont need checkboxes

Author: I actually disagree stronger with the news fragment checkbox, because with the code if you once set up the pre-commit it is automatically fixed. On the other hand I had many times when I created a pull request that I was reminded of the news fragment by the PR template (in other repos) and I was happy that I could fix it before the check was failing

But I also just remembered that I added towncrier to pre-commit and it somehow does not stop me from committing things without a news fragment...Hmmm...Will have to check up on why that is

Reviewer 2: Good point that you just set up pre-commit once then you're done while towncrier has to be added every time. 

I usually look at the checkboxes after opening the PR, since I don't then have to manually add X's, I can just click the boxes. And the towncrier workflow fails very fast, so it doesnt take much longer for the workflow to remind me I forgot it than it takes me to go through the checkboxes.

There are quite a few checkboxes here, so I think it could be a benefit to cut where possible so its less overwhelming. 

My opinions on this aren't very strong however, these are just my initial thoughts :stuck_out_tongue:

Author: Yes, I was thinking the same, so I'm considering just dropping that pre-commit hook. But then I would strongly prefer to have the check in the PR template

* [ ] The first line of the commit message continues the sentence "If applied, this commit will ...", starts with a capital letter, does not end with punctuation and is 50 characters or less long. See https://cbea.ms/git-commit/

> * [ ] Based this on the right branch: For a patch/bugfix affecting the latest stable series based it on that series' branch (`<major>.<minor>.x`), for a new feature and other additions based them on `master`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [ ] This pull request is based on the correct upstream branch: For a patch/bugfix affecting the latest stable version, it should be based on that version's branch (`<major>.<minor>.x`). For a new feature or other additions, it should be based on `master`.
```
